Life for women can be difficult. For mothers in the Central African Republic, it's a daily struggle for survival. Imagine navigating motherhood,
While facing violence, forced marriage and barriers to education for yourself and for your children.
This is the reality of living in extreme poverty. With your support, Tearfund can help women learn to read and write so they can earn a living and send their children home.
A children to school, we're determined to end extreme poverty and injustice following Jesus where the need is greatest.
Do you have a heart to help?
Find out more at tearfund.org/premiere
Hello friends, I'm Rick Warren and welcome to Spurgeon's Sermons. This is the official podcast brought to you by Premier and Spurgeon's College.
You know the teachings of Charles Spurgeon have had a personal impact on my life in a profound way and I'm confident they'll do the same for you. So get ready to be challenged.
be challenged, equipped, and guided by Charles Spurgeon, who is universally regarded as the greatest English preacher in the history of the Church.
Silver sockets
Or redemption the foundation.
The sermon by Charles Spurgeon
Part two.
And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, When thou takest the sum of the children of Israel after their number,
Then shall they give every man a ransom for his soul unto the Lord, when thou numberest them.
That there be no plague among them.
When there are numbers, them.
This they shall give, every one that passeth among them that are numbered.
Half a shekel.
After the shekel of the sanctuary.
The shekel is twenty geras.
And half shekel shall be the offering of the Lord.
Everyone that passeth among them that are numbered,
From 20 years old and above,
Shall give an offering unto the Lord.
The rich shall not give more,
And the poor shall not give less than half a shekel.
When they give an offering unto the Lord, to make an atonement,
For your souls.
And thou shalt take the atonement money of the children of Israel,
And shall appoint it for the service of the tabernacle of the congregation.
That it may be a memorial unto the children of Israel before the Lord.
To make an atonement for your souls.
Exodus chapter 30
11 to 16.
A becker for every man, that is half a shekel,
After the shekel of the sanctuary,
For everyone that went to be numbered.
From 20 years old and upward,
For 603,550 men.
And of the hundred talents of silver were cast,
The sockets of the sanctuary.
And the sockets of the veil.
And 100 sockets of the 100 talents
A talent for a socket.
Exodus chapter 38
Verses 26 to 27.
Now we turn to the second of our texts.
And there we learn a very remarkable fact.
In the 38th chapter verse 25
We find that this mass of silver which was paid
Whereby 603,550 men were redeemed,
Each one paying his half shekel
Came to a great weight of silver.
It must have weighed something over four tons.
And this was dedicated to the use of the tabernacle.
The special application of the precious metal
Was to make sockets
into which the boards which made the walls of the tabernacle should be placed.
The mass of silver,
Made up 100 talents.
And these upheld the 50 boards of the holy place.
They were in the wilderness, constantly moving and continually shifting the tabernacle.
Now,
They might have dug out a foundation in the sand.
Or on coming to a piece of rock
Where they could not dig,
They might have cut out foundations.
With great toil.
But the Lord appointed that they should carry the foundation of the tabernacle with them.
A talent of silver,
weighing I suppose close upon one hundred pounds
Was either formed into the shape of a wedge,
So as to be driven into the soil,
Or else made into a solid square plate
To lie upon it.
In the wedge or plate
Were made mortises.
Into which the tenons of the boards could be readily fitted.
These plates of silver,
Fitted the one into the other.
Tenon and Mortis wise.
And thus they made a compact parallelogram, strengthened at the corners with double plates,
And formed one foundation, movable when taken to pieces,
Yet very secure as a whole.
This foundation was made of the redemption money.
See the instructive emblem.
The foundation of the worship of Israel was redemption.
The dwelling place of the Lord their God,
Was founded on atonement.
All the boards of incorruptible wood,
And precious gold.
stood upon the redemption price.
And the curtains of fine linen
And the veil of matchless workmanship,
And the whole structure
Rested on nothing else.
But the solid mass of silver which had been paid as the redemption money of the people.
There was only one exception.
And that was at the door.
Where was the entrance to the holy place?
There,
The pillars were set upon sockets of brass.
Perhaps because
As there was much going in and out of the priests,
It was not meet that they should tread upon the token of redemption.
The blood of the paschal lamb
When Israel came out of Egypt,
Was sprinkled on the lintel.
And on the two side posts,
But out of reverence,
To that blood,
It was not to be sprinkled on the threshold.
Everything was done to show the atonement.
is to be the precious foundation of all holy things.
And to prevent
A slighting or disregard of it.
Woe unto that man of whom it shall ever be said.
He hath trodden under foot the son of God.
And hath counted the blood of the covenant,
Wherewith he was sanctified an unholy thing.
I do not for a moment bring before you the type of the text as a proof of doctrine.
But I intend to use it,
Simply as an illustration.
It seems to me to be a very striking fool.
And suggestive emblem.
Setting forth most clearly,
Certain precious truths
I feel I am quite safe in using this illustration.
Because it is one,
Among a group of acknowledged types
And could not have been given without reason.
I do not see
Why they could not have made the foundation sockets of iron.
Or why they could not have been content,
28, with
With tent pins and cords.
As in other cases of tent building.
I see no reason.
In the necessity of the case,
Why, they must be sockets of silver.
There must have been another reason.
Why was that particular silver prescribed?
Why must?
The redemption money be used and nothing else.
Surely there is teaching here if we will but see it.
Moreover, this does not stand alone.
For when the tabernacle was succeeded by the temple,
Redemption was still conspicuous in the foundation.
What was the foundation of the temple?
It was the rock.
Of Mount Moriah.
And what was the hill of Moriah?
But the place,
where redemption and atonement had been set forth.
It was there.
that Abraham drew the knife to slay Isaac.
A fair picture of the father offering up his son.
It was there, the ram.
Was caught in the thicket and was killed instead of Isaac.
A fit emblem
Of the substitute accepted instead of man.
Later still.
It was on Mount Moriah that the angel, when David attempted to number the people without redemption money,
Stood with his sword drawn.
There David offered sacrifices.
And burned offerings.
The offering was accepted.
And the angel sheathed his sword.
Another picture
Of that power of redemption.
By which mercy rejoices against judgment.
I'm there.
The Lord uttered the memorable sentence.
It is enough.
Stay now thine hand,
This enough.
Is the crown of redemption.
Even as the great sacrifice himself said.
It is finished
So does the great acceptor of the sacrifice say,
Enough.
What a place of redemption was the hill of Zion!
Now if the temple was built on a mount which must have been specially selected
Because there the types of redemption were most plentiful.
I feel that without an apology
I may boldly take this first fact
That the building of the tabernacle in the wilderness
Was based and grounded upon redemption money.
And use it
For our instruction.
With this much of preface
We will now fall to and feed upon the spiritual meal
Which is set before us.
O for grace!
To feast upon the heavenly bread that we may grow thereby,
Spirit of the Living God, be pleased to help us in this matter.
First.
I want you to view this illustration
As teaching us something about God in relation to humanity.
The tent in the wilderness
was typical of God's coming down to humanity.
To hold commune with them.
The fiery cloudy pillar,
Visible outside
And the bright light of the Shekinah visible to him, who was called to enter once a year.
Into the innermost sanctuary.
Shining over the mercy seat.
These were the tokens of the special presence of the deity in the centre of the camp of Israel.
The Lord seems to teach us
In relation to his dealing with men and women,
That he will meet them in the way of grace,
Only.
On the footing of redemption
He addresses love.
And grace within his holy shrine.
But the basis of that shrine must be atonement.
Rest assured, dear friends, that there is no meeting with God on our part.
except through Jesus Christ our Redeemer.
I am of Luther's mind when he said,
I will have nothing to do with an absolute God.
God out of Christ
Is a terror to us.
Even in Christ, remember.
He is a consuming fire.
But what he must be out of Christ,
May none of us ever know.
Till God in human flesh, I see my thoughts, no comfort find.
The holy,
Just,
And sacred three are terrors to my mind.
But if,
Emmanuel's face appear.
My hope,
My joy begins.
His name forbids my slavish fear.
His grace removes my sins.
You must not attempt to have audience with God.
At first upon the footing of election.
It is presumptuous.
To attempt to come to the electing father.
Except through the atoning son.
No man,
Saith Christ.
Cometh to the Father,
But by me.
Never attempt
To speak with God on the footing of your own sanctification.
For very soon you will come to bringing your legal righteousness before him, and that will provoke him.
Always enter the holy place with the thought
I know that my redeemer lives.
Not without blood.
Recollect that.
Into the holy place,
Went the high priest once every year.
Not without blood.
There can be no coming of God to man.
On terms of peace,
Except through the one great sacrifice,
That must be the foundation of it all.
It is not only God's coming to us.
But God's abiding with us.
That is upon the same foundation.
For the tabernacle was, so to speak,
The house of God.
The place where God especially dwelt among his people, as he said, "I will dwell in them."
And walk.
in them.
But he never dwelt among them in anything but in a tent,
That was based
Upon the silver of the redemption money.
And you, dear friend,
If you have ever walked with God,
Can only maintain your fellowship,
By resting where you did at first.
As a poor sinner.
Redeemed by your saviour.
They have asked me.
To rise sometimes to a higher platform.
And come to God.
As a sanctified person.
Yes, but a rock.
Though it may be lower than the little wooden stage which some build upon it.
Is safer to stand upon.
And I do believe.
That those who walk with God according to their attainments,
And imaginary perfections
Have climbed up to a rotten stage which will fall under them before long.
I know no mood of standing before God today.
But that which I had at first.
I am unworthy still in myself.
But accept it,
In the beloved
Guilty in myself.
And lost and ruined.
But still received blessed and loved
Because of the person and work of christ
The Lord cannot dwell with you, my dear friend.
You will soon have broken fellowship.
And be in the dark,
If you attempt to walk with him because you feel sanctified.
Or because you have been active in his service.
Or because you know much.
Or because
You are an experienced believer.
No.
No, no,
The Lord will only abide with us in that tabernacle whose every board,
is resting upon the silver foundation of redemption.
By his own dear son.
Thank you for listening, friends. this podcast was brought to you by Premier in association with Spurgeon's College.
For more Christian podcasts, sermons, and music,
Head back to the website Premier.plus and sign in for free.
Life for women can be difficult. For mothers in the Central African Republic, it's a daily struggle for survival. Imagine navigating motherhood while
While facing violence, forced marriage and barriers to education for yourself and for your children.
This is the reality of living in extreme poverty. With your support, Tearfund can help women learn to read and write so they can earn a living and send their children home.
children to school, we're determined to end extreme poverty and injustice, following Jesus where the need is greatest.
Do you have a heart to help?
Find out more at tearfund.org/premiere